>> Evgenii Ray: So let's start
with a very simple concept first.
So every HTML element on
the page is actually a box, and
we can prove this by
selecting all the elements on
the Frontend Masters website and
apply a green border to that.
So and as you can see,
most of the websites is just a set of
rectangles composed together, but
the thing about that is the box
itself has its own anatomy.
The box has four layers,
the first one is the content box, so
this is the area where
we put our text content.
And there is a padding box,
the area that surrounds the content box.
And there is a border box,
the area that surrounds the whole
content with the padding.
And then there is a margin box,
this represents the external space,
so outside the element border.
>> Evgenii Ray: And we can play around
with the example to see that actually we
can compose different layers together,
so some of them optional.
>> Evgenii Ray: So there could be
multiple sets of variations that we
can build using these layers.
So we started with a very
simple box model, but
the box itself is not that simple.
And it has a two main properties,
the one is the box size and
the second one is the box type.
Let's start with the box size.
So box size itself has two types,
so it can be intrinsic, so
this means that when we don't
apply any rules to the box,
the height of the box and the size of
the box is determined by its content.
And it can also be restricted.
So it means that,
we can apply some fixed size via CSS,
or we can also limit
the size by the parent.
So for instance, if the parent got
smaller, the box will adjust its size.
>> Evgenii Ray: And
the second property is the box type.
So the box itself can be block level,
inline level, and I don't even use a box.
So let's go for each type.
>> Evgenii Ray: So the block level
boxes are rendered like a block, and
you may know already most of the text
here, but the two main characteristic
of the block level box is,
it always takes 100% of the height.
Sorry, 100% of the width of the parent,
and
the height of the box is determined by
its content size, so intrinsic height.
Also two things about
the block level boxes is that,
the element is rendered
from top to bottom.
And it also participates in
Block's Context Formatting, BCF.
Also, there is anonymous box.
So the Browser somehow needs to
represent the elements that we
don't drop into the text.
That's why the Browser
automatically drops this type
of elements into the anonymous box,
which is the block level box.
And apparently, the block level
elements have its own mathematics.
So if we try to calculate the width of
the box, then there will be two cases.
The first one is when the box-sizing
is set to the content-box.
So we need to calculate
the final width of the box,
we need to sum all
the layers that the box has.
If we use the border box-sizing
border-box, then the padding and
the border already included
in the content size.
So we don't need to do it
manually in JavaScript, and
we just need to sum the margins.
So this is a very common pattern
that we use in the complex apps when
we just set the box size in
portal box to every element,
because it simplifies the calculations.
So the next type of element
is the inline elements.
They're completely different
from the block level elements,
because they render as a string.
So this means that, they are flowing from
left to right and from top to bottom.
And they also participate in
inline formatting context,
which is different from the BFC.
And they also generate the inline
level books, and the inline elements
have different mathematics because
if you try to apply the width or
the height properties to that,
they will completely ignore that.
And also,
they do not react on any vertical margins.
And inline paddings also doesn't alter
the height of the inline element.
So if we look at the example actually,
how it works, then the height of
the inline element is determined
by either the intrinsic height or
the line height property.
Everything that goes beyond the line
height kind of will be ignored by
the Browser.
So you may open your Browser console and
see that there is additional height,
but because the Browser ignores every
everything that goes
beyond the line headline.
So everything that goes
beyond this line will not be
participated in any calculations.
So we also call it a non-context height.